doc/index.rst, before:

.. Ramp-workflow documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon Oct 21 16:13:22 2019.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to RAMP-workflow's documentation!
=========================================

RAMP-workflow is part of the `RAMP <https://www.ramp.studio/>`_ ecosystem.
The purpose of RAMP is to define, build, manage, and optimize data analytics
workflows, typically on the top of open source machine learning libraries like
pandas, scikit-learn, and keras. RAMP-workflow consists of a set of reusable
tools and scripts to define `score types
<https://github.com/paris-saclay-cds/ramp-workflow/tree/master/rampwf/score_types>`_
(metrics), `workflow elements
<https://github.com/paris-saclay-cds/ramp-workflow/tree/master/rampwf/workflows>`_
and `prediction types <https://github.com/paris-saclay-cds/ramp-workflow/tree/master/rampwf/prediction_types>`_.

Installation
************

To install the latest version of the ramp-workflow library, run:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ pip install git+https://github.com/paris-saclay-cds/ramp-workflow.git

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: What can RAMP offer you?

   who_are_you
   
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Using RAMP workflow

   workflow
   data
   problem
   scoring
   command_line
   contribute

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Using RAMP kits

   using_kits

Commit message:

DOC update to mention PyPI installed

doc/index.rst, after:

.. Ramp-workflow documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon Oct 21 16:13:22 2019.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to RAMP-workflow's documentation!
=========================================

RAMP-workflow is part of the `RAMP <https://www.ramp.studio/>`_ ecosystem.
The purpose of RAMP is to define, build, manage, and optimize data analytics
workflows, typically on the top of open source machine learning libraries like
pandas, scikit-learn, and keras. RAMP-workflow consists of a set of reusable
tools and scripts to define `score types
<https://github.com/paris-saclay-cds/ramp-workflow/tree/master/rampwf/score_types>`_
(metrics), `workflow elements
<https://github.com/paris-saclay-cds/ramp-workflow/tree/master/rampwf/workflows>`_
and `prediction types <https://github.com/paris-saclay-cds/ramp-workflow/tree/master/rampwf/prediction_types>`_.

Installation
************

Ramp-workflow is available on PyPI and can be installed via `pip`::

    $ pip install ramp-workflow

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: What can RAMP offer you?

   who_are_you

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Using RAMP workflow

   workflow
   data
   problem
   scoring
   command_line
   contribute

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Using RAMP kits

   using_kits
