doc/using_kits.rst, before:

.. _using-kits:

Using RAMP starting-kits
########################

Get the starting-kit
====================

To start working on a specific challenge, you can download the starting-kit
directly from the event page (i.e. "Download kit" button).

   .. image:: images/ramp_kit_download.png
    :width: 700

   |

It will provide a zip file providing all the necessary materials. All RAMP
starting kits can be found on the `RAMP starting kits
<https://github.com/ramp-kits>`_ Github repository. Some starting-kits come
with specific instructions (e.g. to download extra data). These instructions
can be found in the `README.md`.

Install dependencies
====================

To run a submission and the notebook you will need the dependencies listed
in `requirements.txt`. You can install install the dependencies using the
following command-line:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ pip install -U -r requirements.txt

If you are using `conda`, we provide an `environment.yml` file:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ conda env create -f environment.yml


Test a submission
=================

The code file(s) (e.g., `estimator.py`) for each submission needs to be stored
in their own folder, which then needs to be located within the `submissions`
folder. The name of the folder containing the code file(s) is the name of
the submission. For example, the code files for the submission named
'my_submission' should be located at `submissions/my_submission`.

To run a specific submission, you can use the `ramp-test` command line:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ ramp-test --submission my_submissions

You can get more information regarding this command line:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ ramp-test --help

The output of the `ramp-test` command should look like:

.. code-block:: bash

   Testing Iris classification
   Reading train and test files from ./data ...
   Reading cv ...
   Training submissions/starting_kit ...
   CV fold 0
      score   acc  error   nll  f1_70      time
      train  0.58   0.42  1.17   0.33  0.175953
      valid  0.65   0.35  0.52   0.33  0.001978
      test   0.71   0.29  0.80   0.67  0.001837
   CV fold 1
      score   acc  error   nll  f1_70      time
      train  0.63   0.37  0.78   0.67  0.011339
      valid  0.65   0.35  0.66   0.67  0.002846
      test   0.54   0.46  0.72   0.33  0.003474
   ----------------------------
   Mean CV scores
   ----------------------------
      score           acc         error           nll        f1_70        time
      train  0.61 ± 0.026  0.39 ± 0.026  0.98 ± 0.197  0.5 ± 0.167  0.1 ± 0.08
      valid    0.65 ± 0.0    0.35 ± 0.0  0.59 ± 0.069  0.5 ± 0.167   0.0 ± 0.0
      test   0.62 ± 0.083  0.38 ± 0.083  0.76 ± 0.041  0.5 ± 0.167   0.0 ± 0.0
   ----------------------------
   Bagged scores
   ----------------------------
      score   acc  error   nll  f1_70
      valid  0.65   0.35  0.59   0.33
      test   0.71   0.29  0.66   0.33

Now you are ready to write your own solution for the prediction problem. It is
useful to read the starting kit notebook which will introduce the problem,
provide some data analysis and visualisation and walk you through a simple
example solution. There will also be at least one example submission in
`submissions/`, which show you which files are required for each submission,
how they need to be named and how each file should be structured.

It is important to check that your submission works locally, using
``ramp-test``, before you submit your solution to `RAMP studio`_.

Submitting to a RAMP event
==========================

To submit your solution to `RAMP studio`_:

1. Log in at `RAMP studio`_. If it is your first time, you will need to first
   register.

2. For a given challenge, go to the event to which you want to participate.
   If you did not join the event yet, you will need to click on "Join event".

   .. image:: images/ramp_join_event.png
      :width: 700

   For most of the events, your registration needs to be validated by an event
   administrator. During this transition, you see the status
   "Waiting approval...".

   .. image:: images/ramp_waiting_approval.png
      :width: 700

   Once you are approved, you will see the status "Event joined".

   .. image:: images/ramp_event_joined.png
    :width: 700

   |

3. Once your sign up as been approved you will have access to a number of
   menu options on the left-hand side:

   .. image:: images/ramp_sidebar.png
    :width: 650

   |

   * **Leaderboard**: it contains a summary of **all** submissions performance
     from all event's participants;
   * **Competition leaderboard**: it contains only the best submission for each
     participant;
   * **Sandbox**: it is your sandbox to make a submission to the event;
   * **My submissions**: it shows information regarding all your submissions.

4. To make a submission go to your "Sandbox". Paste the code of your submission
   that you earlier validated with `ramp-test` command-line. If you wish, you
   can save your submission and come back to it later by clicking on
   "Save for later". If you are ready, you can click on "Submit now". You will
   get the following window:

   .. image:: images/ramp_sandbox_submission.png
    :width: 650

   |

   You need to enter a submission name, without any spaces, containing between
   4 and 20 characters. When ready, click on "Submit now". Ensure each
   submission has a unique name.
   Shortly afterward, your submission will be sent for training and you will be
   able to see the status of your submission in "My submissions". When your
   submission is waiting in the queue to be trained, it will appear in the
   table "New submissions". Once trained it will either appear in "Trained
   submissions" (if it trained sucessfully) or in "Failed submissions". If your
   submission failed, you can click on the error to see part of the trace.

   .. image:: images/ramp_my_submissions.png
    :width: 800

   |

.. _RAMP studio: https://www.ramp.studio

Commit message:

DOC Update prepare_data instructions (#235)
* update data doc

* mention data dir

* use term raw data

* clarify prepare data

* clarify

* amendments

* formatting

* solution dir struct

* typos

doc/using_kits.rst, after:

.. _using-kits:

Using RAMP starting-kits
########################

Get the starting-kit
====================

To start working on a specific challenge, you can download the starting-kit
directly from the event page (i.e. "Download kit" button).

   .. image:: images/ramp_kit_download.png
    :width: 700

   |

It will provide a zip file providing all the necessary materials. All RAMP
starting kits can be found on the `RAMP starting kits
<https://github.com/ramp-kits>`_ Github repository. Some starting-kits come
with specific instructions (e.g. to download extra data). These instructions
can be found in the `README.md`.

Install dependencies
====================

To run a submission and the notebook you will need the dependencies listed
in `requirements.txt`. You can install install the dependencies using the
following command-line:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ pip install -U -r requirements.txt

If you are using `conda`, we provide an `environment.yml` file:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ conda env create -f environment.yml


Test a submission
=================

The code file(s) (e.g., `estimator.py`) for each submission needs to be stored
in their own folder, which then needs to be located within the `submissions`
folder. The name of the folder containing the code file(s) is the name of
the submission. For example, the code file(s) for the submission named
'my_submission' should be located at `submissions/my_submission`. The file
structure should look like this::

    <starting_kit_name>/    # root starting-kit directory
    ├── <various starting kit files>
    ├── data/
    |   ├── train.csv     # data for challenge
    |   └── test.csv
    └── submissions/
        ├── <starting_kit>/       # example solution that comes with every kit
        |   └── <submission_file.py>
        └── <my_submission>/      # your first submission
            └── <submission_file.py>

To run a specific submission, you can use the `ramp-test` command line:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ ramp-test --submission my_submissions

You can get more information regarding this command line:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ ramp-test --help

The output of the `ramp-test` command should look like:

.. code-block:: bash

   Testing Iris classification
   Reading train and test files from ./data ...
   Reading cv ...
   Training submissions/starting_kit ...
   CV fold 0
      score   acc  error   nll  f1_70      time
      train  0.58   0.42  1.17   0.33  0.175953
      valid  0.65   0.35  0.52   0.33  0.001978
      test   0.71   0.29  0.80   0.67  0.001837
   CV fold 1
      score   acc  error   nll  f1_70      time
      train  0.63   0.37  0.78   0.67  0.011339
      valid  0.65   0.35  0.66   0.67  0.002846
      test   0.54   0.46  0.72   0.33  0.003474
   ----------------------------
   Mean CV scores
   ----------------------------
      score           acc         error           nll        f1_70        time
      train  0.61 ± 0.026  0.39 ± 0.026  0.98 ± 0.197  0.5 ± 0.167  0.1 ± 0.08
      valid    0.65 ± 0.0    0.35 ± 0.0  0.59 ± 0.069  0.5 ± 0.167   0.0 ± 0.0
      test   0.62 ± 0.083  0.38 ± 0.083  0.76 ± 0.041  0.5 ± 0.167   0.0 ± 0.0
   ----------------------------
   Bagged scores
   ----------------------------
      score   acc  error   nll  f1_70
      valid  0.65   0.35  0.59   0.33
      test   0.71   0.29  0.66   0.33

Now you are ready to write your own solution for the prediction problem. It is
useful to read the starting kit notebook which will introduce the problem,
provide some data analysis and visualisation and walk you through a simple
example solution. There will also be at least one example submission in
`submissions/`, which show you which files are required for each submission,
how they need to be named and how each file should be structured.

It is important to check that your submission works locally, using
``ramp-test``, before you submit your solution to `RAMP studio`_.

Submitting to a RAMP event
==========================

To submit your solution to `RAMP studio`_:

1. Log in at `RAMP studio`_. If it is your first time, you will need to first
   register.

2. For a given challenge, go to the event to which you want to participate.
   If you did not join the event yet, you will need to click on "Join event".

   .. image:: images/ramp_join_event.png
      :width: 700

   For most of the events, your registration needs to be validated by an event
   administrator. During this transition, you see the status
   "Waiting approval...".

   .. image:: images/ramp_waiting_approval.png
      :width: 700

   Once you are approved, you will see the status "Event joined".

   .. image:: images/ramp_event_joined.png
    :width: 700

   |

3. Once your sign up as been approved you will have access to a number of
   menu options on the left-hand side:

   .. image:: images/ramp_sidebar.png
    :width: 650

   |

   * **Leaderboard**: it contains a summary of **all** submissions performance
     from all event's participants;
   * **Competition leaderboard**: it contains only the best submission for each
     participant;
   * **Sandbox**: it is your sandbox to make a submission to the event;
   * **My submissions**: it shows information regarding all your submissions.

4. To make a submission go to your "Sandbox". Paste the code of your submission
   that you earlier validated with `ramp-test` command-line. If you wish, you
   can save your submission and come back to it later by clicking on
   "Save for later". If you are ready, you can click on "Submit now". You will
   get the following window:

   .. image:: images/ramp_sandbox_submission.png
    :width: 650

   |

   You need to enter a submission name, without any spaces, containing between
   4 and 20 characters. When ready, click on "Submit now". Ensure each
   submission has a unique name.
   Shortly afterward, your submission will be sent for training and you will be
   able to see the status of your submission in "My submissions". When your
   submission is waiting in the queue to be trained, it will appear in the
   table "New submissions". Once trained it will either appear in "Trained
   submissions" (if it trained sucessfully) or in "Failed submissions". If your
   submission failed, you can click on the error to see part of the trace.

   .. image:: images/ramp_my_submissions.png
    :width: 800

   |

.. _RAMP studio: https://www.ramp.studio
